README.md, before:

# 🏛️ Local Government Website Starter Kit

A modern, multilingual, and accessible website template designed specifically for local government units (LGUs) in the Philippines. Built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS.

## ✨ Features

- **🌐 Multilingual Support**: English, Filipino, Cebuano, and other Philippine languages
- **📱 Responsive Design**: Mobile-first approach with modern UI/UX
- **♿ Accessibility**: WCAG 2.1 compliant design
- **📝 Content Management**: YAML-based content system for easy updates
- **🎨 Customizable**: Easy theming and branding customization
- **⚡ Fast Performance**: Built with Vite for optimal loading speeds
- **🔍 SEO Optimized**: Built-in SEO best practices

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- npm or yarn
- Git

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/local-government-starter-kit.git
   cd local-government-starter-kit
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```

3. **Run the setup script**

   ```bash
   npm run setup
   ```

   This will guide you through configuring your government's information.

4. **Start development server**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   yarn dev
   ```

5. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

## 📚 Documentation

- **[STARTER-KIT-README.md](STARTER-KIT-README.md)** - Complete setup and customization guide
- **[CONTENT-GUIDE.md](CONTENT-GUIDE.md)** - Content writing and contribution guidelines
- **[DEPLOYMENT-GUIDE.md](DEPLOYMENT-GUIDE.md)** - Deployment instructions for Vercel and other platforms
- **[STARTER-KIT-SUMMARY.md](STARTER-KIT-SUMMARY.md)** - Audit results and implementation summary

## 🎯 Perfect For

- **Local Government Units** (Cities, Municipalities, Provinces)
- **Government IT Departments** looking for modern web solutions
- **Web Development Agencies** serving government clients
- **Civic Technology Organizations** building government tools
- **Government Officials** wanting professional online presence

## ⚡ Quick Setup (3-5 hours to live website)

1. **Clone & Install** (5 minutes)

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/local-government-starter-kit.git
   cd local-government-starter-kit
   npm install
   ```

2. **Configure Your Government** (15 minutes)

   ```bash
   npm run setup
   # Interactive setup guides you through configuration
   ```

3. **Customize Content** (2-4 hours)
   - Edit service information in `src/data/content/`
   - Add your government's services and programs
   - Update contact information and branding

4. **Deploy to Production** (15 minutes)
   - Connect to Vercel for free hosting
   - Set up custom domain (optional)
   - Your website is live!

## 🌟 What Makes This Different

### **Built for Philippine LGUs**

- **Multilingual**: English, Filipino, Cebuano, and other local languages
- **Local Context**: Designed for Philippine government structure
- **Cultural Sensitivity**: Respects local customs and practices
- **Accessibility**: WCAG 2.1 compliant for all citizens

### **Non-Technical Friendly**

- **YAML Content Management**: Easy content updates without coding
- **Visual Setup**: Interactive configuration process
- **Clear Documentation**: Step-by-step guides for everything
- **Template System**: Pre-built content templates

### **Modern & Professional**

- **Mobile-First**: Works perfectly on all devices
- **Fast Loading**: Optimized for performance
- **SEO Ready**: Built-in search engine optimization
- **Secure**: Modern security best practices

## 🛠️ Development

### Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint
- `npm run lint:fix` - Fix ESLint issues
- `npm run format` - Format code with Prettier
- `npm run setup` - Run setup script for new installations
- `npm run convert-yaml` - Convert YAML to JSON
- `npm run dev:yaml` - Convert YAML and start dev server

### Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/          # Reusable UI components
│   ├── home/           # Home page components
│   ├── layout/         # Layout components (Navbar, Footer)
│   ├── sections/       # Page sections
│   └── ui/             # Basic UI components
├── data/               # Content and configuration
│   ├── content/        # Markdown content files
│   └── *.yaml          # Configuration files
├── hooks/              # Custom React hooks
├── i18n/               # Internationalization
├── lib/                # Utility functions
├── pages/              # Page components
└── types/              # TypeScript type definitions
```

## 🤝 Contributing

### For Content Contributors

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a content branch**: `git checkout -b content/update-health-services`
3. **Edit content files** in `src/data/content/`
4. **Test your changes**: `npm run dev`
5. **Submit a pull request**

### For Developers

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**: `git checkout -b feature/new-component`
3. **Make your changes**
4. **Run tests**: `npm run lint && npm run build`
5. **Submit a pull request**

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the Creative Commons Zero (CC0) License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

**CC0 License Benefits:**

- **Public Domain**: No restrictions on use, modification, or distribution
- **Government Friendly**: Perfect for public sector projects
- **Maximum Reusability**: Anyone can use, modify, and distribute freely
- **No Attribution Required**: Though attribution is appreciated

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built with [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- Styled with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- Icons by [Lucide React](https://lucide.dev/)
- Content management with [YAML](https://yaml.org/)
- Internationalization with [i18next](https://www.i18next.com/)

---

**Made with ❤️ for Philippine Local Government Units**

Commit message:

add react-helmet for seo

README.md, after:

# 🏛️ Local Government Website Starter Kit

A modern, multilingual, and accessible website template designed specifically for local government units (LGUs) in the Philippines. Built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS.

## ✨ Features

- **🌐 Multilingual Support**: English, Filipino, Cebuano, and other Philippine languages
- **📱 Responsive Design**: Mobile-first approach with modern UI/UX
- **♿ Accessibility**: WCAG 2.1 compliant design
- **📝 Content Management**: YAML-based content system for easy updates
- **🎨 Customizable**: Easy theming and branding customization
- **⚡ Fast Performance**: Built with Vite for optimal loading speeds
- **🔍 SEO Optimized**: Built-in SEO with react-helmet, meta tags, and Open Graph support

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- npm or yarn
- Git

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/local-government-starter-kit.git
   cd local-government-starter-kit
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```

3. **Run the setup script**

   ```bash
   npm run setup
   ```

   This will guide you through configuring your government's information.

4. **Start development server**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   yarn dev
   ```

5. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

## 📚 Documentation

- **[STARTER-KIT-README.md](STARTER-KIT-README.md)** - Complete setup and customization guide
- **[CONTENT-GUIDE.md](CONTENT-GUIDE.md)** - Content writing and contribution guidelines
- **[DEPLOYMENT-GUIDE.md](DEPLOYMENT-GUIDE.md)** - Deployment instructions for Vercel and other platforms
- **[STARTER-KIT-SUMMARY.md](STARTER-KIT-SUMMARY.md)** - Audit results and implementation summary

## 🎯 Perfect For

- **Local Government Units** (Cities, Municipalities, Provinces)
- **Government IT Departments** looking for modern web solutions
- **Web Development Agencies** serving government clients
- **Civic Technology Organizations** building government tools
- **Government Officials** wanting professional online presence

## ⚡ Quick Setup (3-5 hours to live website)

1. **Clone & Install** (5 minutes)

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-org/local-government-starter-kit.git
   cd local-government-starter-kit
   npm install
   ```

2. **Configure Your Government** (15 minutes)

   ```bash
   npm run setup
   # Interactive setup guides you through configuration
   ```

3. **Customize Content** (2-4 hours)
   - Edit service information in `src/data/content/`
   - Add your government's services and programs
   - Update contact information and branding

4. **Deploy to Production** (15 minutes)
   - Connect to Vercel for free hosting
   - Set up custom domain (optional)
   - Your website is live!

## 🌟 What Makes This Different

### **Built for Philippine LGUs**

- **Multilingual**: English, Filipino, Cebuano, and other local languages
- **Local Context**: Designed for Philippine government structure
- **Cultural Sensitivity**: Respects local customs and practices
- **Accessibility**: WCAG 2.1 compliant for all citizens

### **Non-Technical Friendly**

- **YAML Content Management**: Easy content updates without coding
- **Visual Setup**: Interactive configuration process
- **Clear Documentation**: Step-by-step guides for everything
- **Template System**: Pre-built content templates

### **Modern & Professional**

- **Mobile-First**: Works perfectly on all devices
- **Fast Loading**: Optimized for performance
- **SEO Ready**: Built-in search engine optimization
- **Secure**: Modern security best practices

## 🛠️ Development

### Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint
- `npm run lint:fix` - Fix ESLint issues
- `npm run format` - Format code with Prettier
- `npm run setup` - Run setup script for new installations
- `npm run convert-yaml` - Convert YAML to JSON
- `npm run dev:yaml` - Convert YAML and start dev server

### Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/          # Reusable UI components
│   ├── home/           # Home page components
│   ├── layout/         # Layout components (Navbar, Footer)
│   ├── sections/       # Page sections
│   └── ui/             # Basic UI components
├── data/               # Content and configuration
│   ├── content/        # Markdown content files
│   └── *.yaml          # Configuration files
├── hooks/              # Custom React hooks
├── i18n/               # Internationalization
├── lib/                # Utility functions
├── pages/              # Page components
└── types/              # TypeScript type definitions
```

## 🤝 Contributing

### For Content Contributors

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a content branch**: `git checkout -b content/update-health-services`
3. **Edit content files** in `src/data/content/`
4. **Test your changes**: `npm run dev`
5. **Submit a pull request**

### For Developers

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**: `git checkout -b feature/new-component`
3. **Make your changes**
4. **Run tests**: `npm run lint && npm run build`
5. **Submit a pull request**

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the Creative Commons Zero (CC0) License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

**CC0 License Benefits:**

- **Public Domain**: No restrictions on use, modification, or distribution
- **Government Friendly**: Perfect for public sector projects
- **Maximum Reusability**: Anyone can use, modify, and distribute freely
- **No Attribution Required**: Though attribution is appreciated

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built with [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- Styled with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- Icons by [Lucide React](https://lucide.dev/)
- Content management with [YAML](https://yaml.org/)
- Internationalization with [i18next](https://www.i18next.com/)

---

**Made with ❤️ for Philippine Local Government Units**
